Add "Teach Promptless a custom task" how-to guide (#781)
Promptless/docs: src/content/docs/docs/get-the-most-out/teach-promptless-a-custom-task/review-inbound-doc-prs.mdx

---
title: "Example: review inbound documentation PRs"
description: Teach Promptless to review contributor documentation PRs — prerequisites, trigger, workflow instructions, and PROMPTLESS.md updates
slug: docs/get-the-most-out/teach-promptless-a-custom-task/review-inbound-doc-prs
type: guide
tags:
  - get-the-most-out
  - guide
timestamp: "2026-07-23T00:00:00Z"
sidebar:
  hidden: false
  order: 35
  label: "Example: review inbound doc PRs"
---

import { Aside, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> This example teaches Promptless to automatically review a documentation PR opened by someone *other than* Promptless, on two dimensions: documentation quality and style, and correctness against the source code. It is an example of the general process described in [Teach Promptless a custom task](/docs/get-the-most-out/teach-promptless-a-custom-task) — a written review workflow paired with a GitHub PR trigger. The steps below first write the workflow, configure the trigger, then save the workflow, hook, and trigger. They describe the intended end-to-end design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example teaches Promptless to automatically review a documentation PR opened by someone *other than* Promptless, focusing on documentation quality and style adherence as well as correctness against the source code. It is an example of the general process described in [Teach Promptless a custom task](/docs/get-the-most-out/teach-promptless-a-custom-task), a written review workflow paired with a GitHub PR trigger. The steps below write the workflow, configure the trigger, then save the workflow, hook, and trigger.
```

     ```markdown
     # Inbound documentation PR review

     When a pull request is opened in the docs repo (acme/docs) by an author who is
     not Promptless, and the PR touches documentation content:

     - No-op on Promptless-authored PRs. There is no per-author config filter, so
       check the PR author and stop if it is the Promptless bot.
     - Review the changes on two dimensions:
       1. Quality and style — check that the edits match your voice, structure, and
          formatting conventions, plus any Vale rules the repo enforces.
       2. Correctness against the source code — verify the PR's claims against the
          actual product source, and flag or fix anything stale or unsupported.
     - Lean toward direct edits on the PR branch for clear fixes; comment only for
       ambiguity or judgment calls that need the author to resolve them.
     - Always post a top-level summary comment describing what you reviewed, what you
       changed, and any open questions. This is required even when nothing changed.
     - Set a GitHub review state (approve or request changes) by default; this

>        behavior is configurable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Inbound documentation PR review

  When a pull request is opened in the docs repo (acme/docs) or you are requested to perform a PR review, and the PR touches documentation content the governed agent instructions (`SKILL.md`, `AGENTS.md`, agent definitions, prompts, etc ):

  1. Acknowledge the review before starting it. Before doing any review work (reading/verifying the content or making edits), acknowledge that the review is underway so the author and team can see Promptless has picked it up:

    - **Set Promptless as an in-progress reviewer** on the PR (request/assign Promptless as a reviewer so the PR shows a review is pending), and
    - **Leave a comment on the PR that a review is in progress.**

  Don't comment on or review out-of-scope PRs.

  2. Review every in-scope PR on the following dimensions:

    - **Quality and style.** Check that the edits match your voice, structure, and formatting conventions, plus any Vale rules the repo enforces.
    - **Correctness against the source code.** Verify the PR's claims against the
          actual product source, and flag or fix anything stale or unsupported.
    
  3. Act on your findings. 
  
      - **Make direct edits** on the PR branch for clear fixes, like typos, broken links, wrong flag names, outdated values, awkward sentences with obvious better phrasing, or factual corrections you verified against source. Do not leave a comment asking them to make a change you could make yourself.
      
      - **Leave comments** when there is ambiguity that needs the contributor to resolve it, like two valid interpretations, a design/intent question, a claim you can't verify from source, or a change that would alter meaning in a way the author should confirm. Comments are for judgment calls, not for changes you're confident about.

  4. Leave a top-level summary comment that states what you reviewed, what you changed directly (with a short list), what you left as open questions/comments and why, and the overall assessment. The summary comment must be present even when you made only direct edits and left no inline comments, and even when you found nothing to change (in which case say so).

  5. Set a GitHub review state. Unless told otherwise, conclude the review by setting a GitHub review state (approve when the docs are correct and ready; request changes when unresolved comments block it).
```

     ```

     Then add an explicit "If, then" hook in `PROMPTLESS.md` that points to this workflow, so it fires reliably (`PROMPTLESS.md` is always loaded into the agent's instructions, whereas the workflow file is loaded on demand):

>      > If a pull request is opened in `acme/docs` by an author who is not Promptless and it touches documentation content, then follow the inbound documentation PR review workflow in `doc_workflows/review-inbound-doc-prs.md`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     > If a pull request that touches documentation content is opened in `acme/docs`, then follow the inbound documentation PR review workflow in `doc_workflows/review-inbound-doc-prs.md`.
```

>      Alternatively, define the review workflow as an Agent Skill living in the doc collection — for example, under `.claude/skills/` in `acme/docs`. In that case the `PROMPTLESS.md` hook must name that doc collection and skill, for example: "When a contributor PR is opened in `acme/docs`, use the `contributor-workflow` skill from the Acme doc collection." See the hook requirement in [Teach Promptless a custom task](/docs/get-the-most-out/teach-promptless-a-custom-task).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Alternatively, define the review workflow as an Agent Skill living in the doc collection, like under `.claude/skills/review-inbound-doc-prs/SKILL.md` in `acme/docs`. In that case the `PROMPTLESS.md` hook must name that doc collection and skill:
     
    > If a pull request that touches documentation content is opened in `acme/docs`, then use the `review-inbound-docs-prs` skill from `acme/docs`.
```

>      The "direct edits" and "review state" instructions describe the intended design. Write the workflow as shown — Promptless acts on the review and summary-comment instructions today, and it will pick up the direct-edit and review-state instructions automatically once that capability ships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  2. **Configure the trigger.** Scope a GitHub PR trigger to your documentation repository so the workflow fires when a contributor opens a PR there. Create it in the dashboard: in the left sidebar, select **Configuration**, open the **Triggers** tab, and choose **Add a trigger**. Build the trigger in the **Form** view (the default); the **YAML** view shows the underlying `promptless.yaml`. The trigger you create listens on the docs repo and narrows to your documentation content, and looks like this in YAML:

     ```yaml
     triggers:
       review-inbound-doc-prs:
         trigger_type: github_pr

>          match:
>            - repos:
>                - acme/docs
>              trigger_on:
>                - opened
>                - first_approval
>                - merge
>              trigger_directories:
>                - docs/
>      ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     ```yaml
     triggers:
       review-inbound-doc-prs:
         trigger_type: github_pr
         match:
           - repos:
               - acme/docs
             trigger_on:
               - opened
     ```
```

     - **`opened`** starts the review as soon as a contributor opens the PR — the primary moment for this task.
     - **`first_approval`** lets Promptless weigh in around the first human approval.
     - **`merge`** covers the point where the PR lands.

>      - **`trigger_directories: docs/`** narrows the trigger to your documentation content, so PRs that touch only unrelated files do not fire it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>      The GitHub PR trigger supports exactly these three events. For the full set of options, see [GitHub PRs](/docs/connect/triggers/github-prs) and the [Configuration Reference](/docs/reference/configuration-reference#triggers). Saving on the Configuration page commits the trigger to `promptless.yaml` in your Agent Knowledge Base, or you can ask Promptless to make the change for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

     <Aside type="caution">
       The GitHub PR trigger supports `opened`, `first_approval`, and `merge` only. There is no "updated"/synchronize/re-review-on-push event today, so you can't configure automatic re-review when a contributor pushes new commits. To re-review after new commits, request it manually — an `@promptless` mention in a PR comment re-triggers a review (see [GitHub PRs](/docs/connect/triggers/github-prs)).

>      </Aside>

Reviewer: Use the same re-prompt comment from the parent page.

```suggestion
```

  3. **Save the workflow, hook, and trigger.** The trigger is saved from the Configuration page in Step 2. Save the workflow file (`doc_workflows/review-inbound-doc-prs.md` or the Agent Skill) and the "If, then" hook in `PROMPTLESS.md` from the Agent Knowledge Base. There are two ways to do this:

     - An organization admin edits the files directly in the [Agent Knowledge Base](/docs/get-the-most-out/agent-knowledge-base) (in the left sidebar, select **Agent Knowledge Base**).
     - You can ask Promptless to make these changes for you — it edits `PROMPTLESS.md`, the workflow file, and `promptless.yaml` and commits the change.
</Steps>

## What Promptless does on each qualifying PR

When a contributor opens a qualifying PR, Promptless:

1. Detects the qualifying PR.
2. Reads the full PR context — title and description, the diff, review comments, and commits.

> 3. Reviews the changes on both dimensions: quality and style, and correctness against the source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Reviews the changes.
```

> 4. Posts a top-level summary comment describing what it reviewed and what it found.

Reviewer: Update to match the new workflow procedure.

<Aside type="caution">
  Today the review agent posts a **top-level summary PR comment**, which is available now. It cannot yet push edits directly to a contributor's PR branch, submit a formal GitHub review state (approve or request changes), or leave inline review comments — the team is actively working on the permissions for this. So the "direct edits" and "review state" parts of this example describe the intended design; today's guaranteed deliverable is the top-level summary comment. In practice, today this delivers an automatic first-pass review comment on every qualifying PR, but it does not yet act as an enforceable branch-protection or required-status-check gate.

> </Aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Example: review inbound documentation PRs"
description: Teach Promptless to review contributor documentation PRs — prerequisites, trigger, workflow instructions, and PROMPTLESS.md updates
slug: docs/get-the-most-out/teach-promptless-a-custom-task/review-inbound-doc-prs
type: guide
tags:
  - get-the-most-out
  - guide
timestamp: "2026-07-23T00:00:00Z"
sidebar:
  hidden: false
  order: 35
  label: "Example: review inbound doc PRs"
---

import { Aside, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> This example teaches Promptless to automatically review a documentation PR opened by someone *other than* Promptless, on two dimensions: (a) documentation quality and style, and (b) correctness against the source code. It is an example of the general process described in [Teach Promptless a custom task](/docs/get-the-most-out/teach-promptless-a-custom-task) — a written review workflow paired with a `github_pr` trigger. The steps below first write the workflow, then configure the trigger, then save the workflow, hook, and trigger. They describe the intended end-to-end design; see [What's available today](#what-promptless-does-on-each-qualifying-pr) for what Promptless actually delivers right now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example teaches Promptless to automatically review a documentation PR opened by someone *other than* Promptless, on two dimensions: documentation quality and style, and correctness against the source code. It is an example of the general process described in [Teach Promptless a custom task](/docs/get-the-most-out/teach-promptless-a-custom-task) — a written review workflow paired with a GitHub PR trigger. The steps below first write the workflow, configure the trigger, then save the workflow, hook, and trigger. They describe the intended end-to-end design. See [What's available today](#what-promptless-does-on-each-qualifying-pr) for what Promptless actually delivers right now.
```

## Prerequisites

Before you set up this task, make sure you have:

- **The GitHub integration connected** to your documentation repository — for example, `acme/docs`.

> - **A Knowledge Base** that holds the "If, then" hook in `PROMPTLESS.md`. The review workflow *body* lives as a file under `doc_workflows/` in the Knowledge Base (for example, `doc_workflows/review-inbound-doc-prs.md`) or as an Agent Skill in the doc collection.

Reviewer: This needs to be part of what we set up. It's not a prerequisite. Everyone has a Knowledge Base already, no exceptions.

- **The ability to chat with Promptless** in Slack or Teams to make edits for you, or **admin access** to edit the Knowledge Base directly.

> - **Open-source or public-repo setups** can follow the [Open Source Quickstart](/docs/start-here/open-source-quickstart) to connect the repo, since this task reviews outside-contributor PRs.

Reviewer: This can work just fine for private repos, thank you very much.

> Set up the task in three steps: write the workflow, configure the trigger, then save the workflow, hook, and trigger. The caution notes below flag which parts describe the intended design versus what runs today.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up the task in three steps: write the workflow, configure the trigger, then save the workflow, hook, and trigger.
```

</Steps>

## What Promptless does on each qualifying PR

When a contributor opens a qualifying PR, Promptless:

1. Detects the qualifying PR.
2. Reads the full PR context — title and description, the diff, review comments, and commits.
3. Reviews the changes on both dimensions: quality and style, and correctness against the source code.
4. Posts a top-level summary comment describing what it reviewed and what it found.

<Aside type="caution">
  Today the review agent posts a **top-level summary PR comment**, which is available now. It cannot yet push edits directly to a contributor's PR branch, submit a formal GitHub review state (approve or request changes), or leave inline review comments — the team is actively working on the permissions for this. So the "direct edits" and "review state" parts of this example describe the intended design; today's guaranteed deliverable is the top-level summary comment. In practice, today this delivers an automatic first-pass review comment on every qualifying PR, but it does not yet act as an enforceable branch-protection or required-status-check gate.
</Aside>

> Need help? Contact us at [help@gopromptless.ai](mailto\:help@gopromptless.ai).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

     ```yaml
     triggers:
       review-inbound-doc-prs:
         trigger_type: github_pr
         match:
           - repos:
               - acme/docs
             trigger_on:
               - opened
     ```

     **`opened`** starts the review as soon as a contributor opens the PR — the primary moment for this task.

  3. **Save the workflow, hook, and trigger.** The trigger is saved from the Configuration page in Step 2. Save the workflow file (`doc_workflows/review-inbound-doc-prs.md` or the Agent Skill) and the "If, then" hook in `PROMPTLESS.md` from the Agent Knowledge Base. There are two ways to do this:

     - An organization admin edits the files directly in the [Agent Knowledge Base](/docs/get-the-most-out/agent-knowledge-base) (in the left sidebar, select **Agent Knowledge Base**).
     - You can ask Promptless to make these changes for you — it edits `PROMPTLESS.md`, the workflow file, and `promptless.yaml` and commits the change.
</Steps>

## What Promptless does on each qualifying PR

When a contributor opens a qualifying PR, Promptless:

> 1. Detects the qualifying PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Detects and acknowledges the qualifying PR.
```

2. Reads the full PR context — title and description, the diff, review comments, and commits.
3. Reviews the changes.

> 4. Posts a top-level summary comment describing what it reviewed and what it found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Updates the review state and posts a summary comment describing what it reviewed and what it found.
```

> Today, Promptless posts the top-level summary comment. The acknowledgement, inline comments, direct edits, and formal review state described in the workflow above will take effect once that capability ships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
